Starting from February 2006, Iraq has suffered from sectarian violence, where many armed groups undertook activities endangering the lives of civilian people and ultimately leading to civil unrest. The situation evolved into sectarian conflict and caused the displacement of hundreds of thousands of civil populations.
Responding to an emerging humanitarian crisis, The UN agencies, international and national NGOs mobilized and started providing humanitarian assistance to support affected individuals and communities.
Despite the continuation of COVID-19 risks, the year 2021 marked the successful accomplishment of Harikar programs in Duhok and Nineveh provinces, fulfilling its obligations vis-à-vis the beneficiaries.
Harikar could successfully implement thirteen projects throughout the year. This achievement was not possible without the outstanding performance of 500+ Harikar staff members, with a total budget summing to nearly 8,900,000 USD. Here We wish to underline that the credit of this accomplishment goes to our generous donors, and the tireless efforts spent by Harikar staff members.
Amid the past year, Harikar’s program execution destinations centered on giving the desired and compassionate administrations to the foremost dejected categories (IDPs, Displaced people, Returnees, host communities, and others) in both Duhok and Nineveh governorates.
Experienced with the eminently unequal and delicate security state in Nineveh governorate and the critical impact of the COVID-19 on all viewpoints of life, Harikar could effectively react to the community needs and was able to effectively contribute towards shielding the compassionate emergency in Duhok and Nineveh as well as the locale. This was accomplished through executing numerous ventures in 2021, focusing on the foremost defenseless recipients; hence, conveniently reacting to the advancing emergencies.
To all Harikar staff, we amplify extraordinary gratitude and appreciation for their extraordinary efforts, field encounters, commitment, and excitement. Without you, we would not be able to realize all these victories, we is proud of you. 
To Harikar partners and donors, much appreciated once more for your belief in supporting WHarikar all through 2021. We guarantee our commitment and responsibility for more accomplishments in 2022.

is to work to establish, promote, and support a society where every individual’sright to health, protection, education, and participation is guaranteed, by informing, empoweringand enabling every individual to realize, claim, protect, and fulfill his or her rights in a free and safe environment.

approaching its 18th year of foundation, Harikar has successfully assisted millions of beneficiaries from asylum seekers/refugees, IDPs, returnees and host community members.
This has been achieved through 260 different projects covering Dohuk, Erbil, Nineveh, Salaheddin and Bagdad governorates. The said projects were implemented with generous funding from the UNHCR, UNFPA, UNICEF, UNDP, UNESCO, UNOPS, UNOCHA/IHF, CARE, DORCAS, ASB, IRD, World Vision International, IRC, NDI, Mercy Corps, RRT/PRT, Diakonia, ICSP, Mission East, SCI and others via about 500+ staff members from Harikar.
Throughout the above projects, Harikar was able to reach out to the most marginalized and destitute  refugees, IDP in addition to the most in-need host community members, women, children and vulnerable groups in the region.
The above projects covered protection in general, civic education, WASH and hygiene promotion, livelihood and health. 
Moreover, Harikar has rapidly responded to all emergencies where there were refugee and IDPs influxes within the KR-I and Iraq as whole. 
Part of the KR-I’s recognition of the national NGOs contribution, the KRG Prime Minister has granted Harikar 2008 Civic Award in an event organized by the Ministry of Civil Society in Kurdistan. The award was granted as acknowledgement of Harikar’s contribution vis-à-vis promotion of the civil society via human rights and namely the rights of women, children, including refugees and IDPs.
Through the wide range of its qualified staff members, and as part of its responsibility to reinforce the capacity of new NGOs, Harikar has guided newly established CSOs proposal writing, project management and operation requirements.
As an independent, neutral, non-governmental, non-profit, humanitarian organization, Harikar strives towards the achievement of women and children rights as well as those of refugees/IDPs.  Accomplishment of such rights is done through General protection, Capacity building, awareness raising, WASH, livelihood and health/hygiene promotion in Kurdistan Region and Iraq alike.

​throughtout the years of implementing projects under different clusters, Harikar has gained experties in different fields due to the needs of the work; this includes but not limited to; 
General Protection, Community Administration Assistance, S/GBV, Health, Livelihood and Wash.
Harikar also has experties in PSEA trainings, Awareness raisings, Capacity building and Hygiene promotion.

Harikar NGO is founded with the purpose of developing, promoting and supporting civil society through offering an open space for all individuals living within Duhok governorate, Kurdistan Region and the whole of Iraq to be informed and participate in realizing her/his rights.

Humanity: We respect every human being regardless of his/her gender, ethnicity, religion, culture, believes and status.
Integrity: We ensure the highest standards of personal and organizational honesty, transparency and behavior.
Accountability: We are responsible for our decisions, actions and accountable to our partners, donors, staff and most of all, to our beneficiaries.
Impartiality: We take decisions and actions based on beneficiaries’ needs and avert from any political, commercial, ethical, religious and social interest.
Trust: We work to build the trust of the communities with which we work.
Commitment: We are committed to provide the best possible quality of services to our beneficiaries.

Goals and Achievements

In 2021, Harikar NGO aimed at ensuring that refugees and IDPs have access to free legal aid including civil status documentation, representation before court and governmental bodies, protection monitoring, legal and protection counselling, case management, PSS, cash for protection other protection needs assessment and subsequent response including the return and border monitoring, capacity building activities for PoCs, law students, and governmental and other service providers.
In line with the cluster set objectives, Harikar supported safe and dignified access to the territory for Refugees and IDPs, in accordance with international standards; Harikar ensured referral mechanism for the provision of essential material assistance to PoCs; enhanced protection monitoring mechanism to comprehensively address the situation of displacement through the continuous profiling of PoCs.
Implementation of civil registration exercise for IDPs in camps, in support of the Iraqi Ministry of Interior and UNHCR, was the most significant achievement attained during 2021; more than 29,500 civil IDs and nationality certificates were issued for IDPs in camps in Duhok governorate.


Lessons learned

Due to the unstable political and economic climate in Iraq and KR-I, C-19 pandemic preventive measures, lack of job opportunities, and other protection issues faced by PoCs in 2021 made the implementation of the assigned tasks by humanitarian actors including Harikar NGO more difficult. Despite all the above-indicated challenges, Harikar continued providing assistance to refugees and IDPs through different projects; Harikar NGO sought alternatives for the implementation of activities both virtually and in person. Harikar maintained and reinforced the established collaborative settings with government departments, donors, partners, other service providers, and community members.
Being a member in consortiums, networks, working groups, and coordination meetings at the level of Duhok, KRI, and Iraq, including but not limited to, co-chair of Duhok GBV sub-working group, lead of Duhok legal taskforce, coalition for just reparations, and others, made the work progress more prominent. It is learnt that correlating different activities under various sectors and reinforcing referral mechanisms led to effective results.
Capacity building for service providers and communities, and awareness-raising activities, led to having a mutual understanding of the planned activities and better communication between the respective stakeholders.
Goals and Achievements

The main goals of Harikar in the child protection subcluster is to support children, youth and adolescent to re-establish the sense of safety, support caregivers/parents and provide necessary support, tools and skills to better help themselves and their fam-ilies, as well as children’s stress management, support of children who are/were ex-posed to violence, neglect and exploitation through integrated protection, MHPSS, live-lihoods and health services. Case management service were one of the most essential services to provide for the children at risk to improve psychosocial wellbeing.
Unconditional and conditional cash grants were providing to children/families to meet their basic needs.
Due to the vast gaps in knowledge, perception and attitude that hinder the proper flow of information about appropriate health behaviors, health awareness campaigns were provided among most vulnerable groups on the subject of COVID-19.
Lessons learned

At the beginning of the services, there was a limited consent from the parents to their children to attend the activities and to allow their children to participate in psychosocial support. They didn’t believe in this service as their children were suffering from psychosocial disorder and they were disparate from healing them. Also, difficulties were faced in parents attendance to the meetings. 
Therefor more awareness raising campaigns are needed and better media coverage, on the importance of psychosocial support for children and parents alike, is crucial and will be a key to more families and children having a healthier and more satisfying living conditions. 
Goals and Achievements
During 2021, Harikar NGO keept its level as a co-chair for GBV Duhok Cluster and as a member of GBVIMS. Leading the Duhok and Ninawa meetings.  Harikar is also a member of PSEA Iraq Network and Duhok PSEA Task Force. 
Harikar through the GBV cluster conduct capacity building trainings for the cluster, and trainings for governmental staff, Non-GBV actors, human rights institutions, local society organizations, communities and community leaders in Duhok and Nineveh. The goal was to prevent and respond to gender-based-violence.
It is worth mentioning that Harikar in collaboration with other stakeholders was able to strengthen laws, policies, and strategies that contribute to prevention and response of GBV. 

Lessons learned
Throughout the implementation of GBV cluster services and activities, many challenges were identified. For example; lack of livelihood projects for referring GBV cases in all locations as well as the lack of medications and specialized doctors for the GBV cases. 
In addition; non availability of enough shelters in some camps was a big challenge as it was one of the GBV cases’ issues. On the other hand, issuing the documents (ID residency & UNHCR certificate) took a long time which caused cause obstacles for urgent GBV cases. 
the outbreak of Covid-19 and lack of service providers in some locations led to difficulties in referrals. It is worth to highlight that the safety and security situation in Ninawa governorate has not been stable which led to negative impacts on the employees and the beneficiaries in women social centers in Sinune and Sinjar. the lesson learnt from above is that, integrating GBV program with livelihood and cash will lead the women and girls to have an independent living condition. 
Goals and Achievements
In 2021, Harikar NGO aimed at ensuring that refugees and IDPs have access to free Reproductive health services and COVID-19 awareness campaigns. 
Harikar was able to improve a safe and dignified access to comprehensive primary health services, first-line life-saving reproductive health and referral services for crisis-affected populations, especially girls and women. The goal was at reducing avoidable morbidity and mortality in targeted areas and strengthening and expanding early warning disease detection to mitigate, detect and respond to disease outbreaks in a timely manner. 
Harikar Increased the capacity of the Ministry of Health, and civil society targeted organizing actions to deliver quality reproductive health services that meet the needs of vulnerable populations and to mitigate the risk posed by the spread of the covid-19. Harikar helped promote early detection and management of risk factors and complications during pregnancy, our team always encourage pregnant women to access an initial ANC, PNC and with keeping on regular follow up, Furthermore, our RH clinics provide universal access to family planning.

Lessons learned
The main lessons learned during the implementing of the health projects is the importance of recruiting staff working in RH clinics from the same community or camp in order to ensure the sustainability of services during curfews and lockdown periods. 
Also, the necessity of using of PPE while maintaining social and physical distance between employees and beneficiaries will increase the protection against COVID19.
The health team in Harikar recommends specifying a budget line in all health projects for the purchase of medication and lab kits as DOH and other NGO have no capacity to support these items.  The team also recommended for the supported RH facilities to have their own separated set up close to the PHCC and not inside the same shared PHCC.

Goals and Achievements
Harikar NGO has actively collaborated with the WASH cluster in terms of WASH infrastructure, in-kind and awareness assistance to the affected population especially unserved IDPs living in critical shelters and/or informal settlements in Duhok district, and returnees in Ninewa governorate.
The main goals and achievements during 2021 were access to sufficient quantity and quality of both drinking and domestic water as well as to dignified, safe, clean and functional sanitation facilities through operation and maintenance of water supply system. 
On the other hand, Harikar helped increased access to sanitation service through the rehabilitation and operation of sanitation facilities and support to improved waste management systems, also increasing access to hygiene through waste management, the distribution of items and hygiene promotion, that included the dissemination of messaging aimed at containing the spread of covid-19.
Harikar also helped enhancing water conservation knowledge and practices followed by IDPs, refugees, and host communities in Duhok and Nineveh Governorate to save water.
Lessons learned
Significant challenges were faced in accessing areas retaken by the federal Iraq government from ISIS control, due to the fragile security and high state security and monitoring presence. 
Beneficiary movement in and out of camp settlement remains the main challenge as it affects the targeted population negatively, increases the figures in one place and decreases it in another which makes a huge change between assessment and implementation phases, and the needs are always increasing where the allocated budget and timeframe are not always covering the needs on the ground.
Increasing and engaging more stakeholders from the targeted community like community leaders so that to reach/register all families in the targeted location, on the other hand, increasing the number of projects with sufficient budget and timeframe through advocating for the actual needs on the ground.

Goals and Achievements
In 2021, Harikar NGO, under the food security and livelihood sectors, targeted the most eligible and vulnerable individual and families, in which granted men and women access to vocational courses and trainings, such as sewing, electricity, mechanics, and agricultural ones. The mentioned trainings provided the necessary skills for the participants to fulfill their own daily living needs as well as to generate income to support their families. Some electricity trainers in Nineveh were professionally skillful and provided topics beyond their training curriculum such as solar energy.
The distribution of start-up kits and agricultural inputs, as well as ensuring the operation and availability of irrigation water, ensured that the beneficiaries have the ability to start their home-based and agricultural businesses as soon as possible.
One of the unintended outcomes was people using their newfound skills and the new resources they got from agriculture to help people with disabilities and elderly people for free to support the most vulnerable community members.


Lessons learned
Some project design did not allow deviations in the types of courses provided to the community and was not entirely based on a market assessment. Therefore, Harikar was not able to provide trainings in other courses such as Mobile Maintenance, Carpentry, etc. which would have met other market needs. Engaging women in some interventions such as CfW activities proved to be difficult in some locations due to traditions and mobility restrictions experienced by women.
The identification of appropriate venues was time-consuming and the lack of state vocational training centers, state certificated trainers or recommended curriculum meant that trainers were hired based on public advertisements and interviewing process which also consumed time.
Harikar recommends that types of courses be based on a thorough Market Assessment considering the existing skills of communities and offering a vast set of course types with smaller participant numbers as well as, if feasible, a longer duration of trainings of 3 to 6 months is recommended, accompanied with practical on-job-training or apprenticeship opportunities. Also, skills trainings such as accounting, planning, computer skills, etc. to complement the newly acquired skills and support a longer-lasting impact for business opportunities.

Harikar NGO, in partnership with UNHCR, implemented this project in cooperation with Directorate of Residency, DCVOW, DMCR and other concerned local authorities. This project concentrated on the sectors of protection and GBV to ensure that POCs (Syrian, non-Syrian refugees and IDPs) in and out of camps have access to free legal aid, protection, basic services and GBV response services.

During 2021, the project aimed at ensuring that refugees and IDPs have access to free legal aid including civil status documentation, representation before court and governmental bodies, protection monitoring, legal and protection counselling, GBV prevention and response services including case management and psycho-social support, and other protection needs assessment and subsequent response (including return and border monitoring). Implementation of civil registration exercise for IDPs in camps, in support of Iraqi Ministry of Interior and UNHCR, was the most significant achievement attained during 2021; more than 29,000 civil IDs and nationality certificates issued for IDPs in camps in Duhok governorate.

Harikar NGO, in partnership with UNFPA, implemented this project in cooperation with Directorate of Health, DCVAW and other concerned local authorities. The project was entailing development phase activities. The main sectors for response were GBV for a full year, youth and adolescent for two quarters and reproductive health for only one quarter.


The project helped strengthening GBV response and prevention by improving safe access to specialized services and referring survivors of violence to other humanitarian service providers. Furthermore, the project also provided structured and comprehensive case management processes to the GBV survivors.
In terms of Capacity building, in 2021, Harikar delivered trainings on GBV case management, PSS, and GBV data collection to other GBV service providers in Dohuk and Ninawa.  
The project empowered young girls to be able to make informed decisions about their reproductive health, education, and their rights as humans; through engaging them in advanced capacity building activities. 
The project was able to improve the psychological and psychosocial states of 25 GBV survivors via involving them in Professional Vocational Trainings with provision of startup kits aiming at supporting GBV survivors in finding an income generating opportunity.
Finally, in 2021, Harikar carried out a study on Honor Killing in Dohuk and Neinawa to study the root causes and prevention mechanism of the mentioned phenomenon. The study is under review by UNFPA and will be published on the protection actors upon finalizing.

Harikar NGO collaborated with Dorcas Aid International, in a UNOCHA-funded consortium, in collaboration with DMCR and other concerned local authorities. The goal of the project was to improve the protection situation of the IDPS’s out of camp and returnees in Duhok and Ninewa governorates. The overall objective was, Strengthening Protection, HLP response and Prevention services during COVID-19 Pandemic, to ensure safeguarding the physical and mental well-being and addressing critical problems related to living standards of millions of conflict-affected people.

The project was able to protect the physical and emotional well-being of conflict-affected persons with immediate needs though successfully providing protection services during Covid-19 pandemic to strengthen the existing protection systems and developing new systems for IDP’s, Host Communities and Returnees in Duhok and Ninewa governorates. As well as to mitigate the existing risk and prevent new protection risks from arising, as families were supported with consultation protection activities and cash activities that had a very positive impact on the beneficiaries’ living conditions, allowing them to get their different needs through cash or freedom of movement, feeling supported while participating in the project activities.
Harikar NGO, in partnership with UNICEF, implemented this project in cooperation with DMCR, DCVAW, local hospitals, health centers and other concerned local authorities. The project concentrated on the sector of GBV and strived to prevent gender-based violence and to provide response and prevention services for women and adolescent girls .


The project provided safe access to women’s static centers in Bashiqa, Bardarash, Zummar, and West Mosul. Moreover, Harikar reached more than the planned target through recreational activities, vocational training, psychosocial support activities, awareness sessions, capacity building training, and case management service. During the project, many girls decided to return to their schools after participating in the AGT sessions and learning about the importance of education. Also, many women and girls learned new skills through vocational training and started small projects in order to generate income and help their families. 

Harikar NGO, in partnership with CARE/GAC, implemented this project in cooperation with Directorate of water and local Governorate. The project was aligned with 2020’s HRP to improve the access to life-saving gender-sensitive WASH, Protection and SRHR activities to thousands of conflict affected individuals. The activities were designed to complement Harikar and CARE existing GAC funded program while expanding the reach to support returnees in Sinjar.


The project rehabilitated water networks, water infrastructure and pumping stations in areas of origin, as well as garbage collection and the distribution of water filters for providing clean drinking water. 
Furthermore, in Essean and Chameshko camps, the bath and latrine drain pipes were separated and the toilets where raised to prevent the water from the bath filling in the septic tanks. A cleaning campaign was also carried out in Chameshko camp. 
GBV survivors and people in extreme need were supported with multi-purpose cash assistance, and dignity kits were distributed to adolescent and reproductive age girls and women.

Harikar NGO, in partnership with World Vision and Dorcas, in partnership with DMCR and the local authorities implemented a section of this project to reach thousands of severely vulnerable IDPs, returnees, and host community members in Al-Mosul (Bashiqa), Sinjar (Sinuni) and Tilkaif (Wana) in Ninewa Governorate. The aim was to provide access to productive assets through the distribution of agricultural assets and inputs to (re)start their livelihoods. Also, to conduct trainings to promote increased production and productivity with a focus on homestead and small-scale food production.


The project helped enhance household access to diverse and nutritious foods with the excess production being sold in the local markets, generating income for the most vulnerable families.
In collaboration with DOA officers, the project provided a number of theoretical and practical trainings, including small-scale irrigation techniques, good agronomic practices, modern farming practices, water conservation techniques, and business management skills as per the SoP on Asset Replacement. In addition, the greenhouse beneficiaries received eight training sessions. The sessions covered Land preparation, connecting water to the greenhouse, seeds planting and irrigation, pest control, pesticide use, fertilization, seedling roping, purring and ventilation, harvest packaging, marketing, and preparation for the new season.
The Cash for Work committee helped in community engagement for site selection for rainfed production systems and irrigation production systems. This activity is linked to the activity of the agricultural input to facilitate the local farmers to cultivate in, especially for those who have no access to irrigation channels.

Harikar NGO, in consortium with WVI, is implementing this project in cooperation with Directorate of Agriculture and local mayor offices. This project seeks to support severely vulnerable IDPs, Returnees and Host community. Furthermore, it improves their access to productive assets through the distribution of agricultural assets and inputs, to (re)start their livelihoods. Also to conduct trainings to promote increased production and productivity with a focus on homestead and small-scale food production.

The project, with support from DOA and the local authorities, provided cash for work for farmers in wana subdistrict, the goal was to clean agricultural drainage canals and support rainfed land through installation of irrigation systems to help farmers have access to water in the next season. the cash for work activity also covered removal of imputities from agricultural land.


Harikar NGO, as part of NC Project with Dary, in collaboration with Duhok DOH, DMCR and other concerned local authorities, implemented this 6-months project (RH Units) in 2 IDPs camps (Bersive1, Kabarto). The Aim was to reach thousands IDPs in both camps. Engaging one RH doctor, a nurse, and 10 community health volunteers for each RH unit in each camp. Services provided in Reproductive Health clinics include management of Gynecological and obstetric cases, ANC, PNC, FP, CMR, and management of women and girls with disability in addition to COVID-19 awareness sessions


The project provided a safe and dignified access to comprehensive primary health services, first-line life-saving reproductive health and referral services for crisis-affected populations, especially girls and women. The goal was at reducing avoidable morbidity and mortality in targeted areas and strengthening and expanding early warning disease detection to mitigate, detect and respond to disease outbreaks in a timely manner.
Improving early detection and management of risk factors and complications, access to initial ANC, PNC and with regular follow ups during pregnancy, Furthermore, the RH clinics provide universal access to family planning.

Harikar NGO, in partnership with CARE International, implemented this project in collaboration with the local authorities and community leaders. The projects aimed at enhancing the resilience of vulnerable host communities and sustainable reintegration of conflict affected returnees, in the selected locations in Sinjar district and Zummar sub-district.


2021 was the last year of the Strengthening WASH basic infrastructure, resilience and livelihoods in return areas in Ninewa, Iraq, all targets of the project were achieved, and all the logical log frame indicators were reached. Water infrastructure construction and rehabilitation, vocational trainings with startup kits, cash for work, agriculture inputs distribution, home garden and green houses, legal assistance with legal awareness sessions. Interventions. 
The project had a general positive on the targeted area.  However, COVID-19 pandemic movement restrictions led to the delay of certain project activities. But the project covered more than 57,000 beneficiaries under different activities of the project.

Harikar NGO, in partnership with Save the Children, and collaboration with DMCR and other concerned local authorities, is implementing this project, funded by SIDA. The project strives to support and protect the most vulnerable, conflict affected, displaced boys, girls and their caregivers in Duhok through integrated protection MHPSS, livelihood and health services.


The project provided case management, cash for protection, and Structured psychosocial programs for children and parents, to mitigate immediate protection risks or concerns that can negatively impact the individual’s well-being or prevent boys/girls from accessing basic services.
Regarding capacity building for the project team, SCI supported Harikar staff by providing eight trainings on different child protection topics.
As part of the child protection national system strengthening, the project supported DOLSA, to monitor and supervise community-based CP mechanisms. Through DOLSA staff, some autism cases were referred to a social center in Zakho.

Moreover, to encourage and enable communities to promote healthy behaviors and prevent the spread of COVID-19, two health awareness campaigns on COVID-19 were conducted for community members by the health assistant and CPC (Child Protection Committee) members. The project also conducted training on RCCE (Risk Community and Community engagement) for health care workers for three days.

Harikar NGO, in partnership with DTV and SCI, and collaboration with DMCR and other concerned local authorities, is implementing this project to improve the employability of target population and create new livelihood opportunities by building the capacity of entrepreneurs, to grow their businesses and facilitate the access to necessary inputs to improve sustainability and support scale-up to take on additional employees.


The project started in the last quarter of 2021, with the goal of providing a new chance for vulnerable Syrian children and youth, and young mothers in Northern Iraq, the project established a youth center in Sumel, were the recruitment process of the team was followed up.
An orientation session on project activities was conducted with a group of youth from the community in the livelihood center by the project staff.

Harikar NGO, in partnership with GIZ and AFD, is implementing this project in cooperation with Directorate of water and DOWD and DMCR and other concerned local authorities. The project seeks to raise awareness on the issues of water wastage and abuse practices among IDPs, refugees and host communities, addressed through multi-sectoral water conservation concept paper, developed based on local evidences by local stakeholders.


The project conducted a workshop in Duhok and Ninevah with project partners, stakeholders and targeted communities’ representatives (religious leader, mukhtars, teachers, students, social activists, media staff from IDPs, refugees and host community members) to present and discuss water waste and abuse practices and formulate Multi-Sectoral Water Conservation Concept/Policy Paper. 
The project organized and conducted training program for local water authority’s, media and public relations staff with mid-level managers from Duhok and Nineveh Governorates. As well as, conducting house to house/tent to tent visit to educate IDPs, refugees and local host communities on appropriate water conservation practices through direct interpersonal communication and counselling

Harikar NGO, in partnership with IHF and Solidarity International, implemented this project in cooperation with Directorate of Electricity, Directorate of Water, local municipalities and DMCR. This project seeks to rehabilitate and extend water networks to provide 300 storage tanks with standard 250L per family and rehabilitate dysfunctional sanitation facilities. As well as to provide 50 garbage containers with 660L for an average of 8 household per container and promote hygiene using PHAST approach. In addition to distributing hygiene kits to reach thousands of people in Zakho and Summel districts.


The project enhanced access to sufficient quantity and quality of both drinking and domestic water, access to dignified, safe, clean, and functional sanitation facilities through the operation and maintenance of water supply systems. On the other hand, increasing access to sanitation service through the rehabilitation and operation of sanitation facilities and support to improved waste management systems, also increasing access to hygiene through waste management, the distribution of items, and related hygiene promotion, that included the dissemination of messaging aimed at containing the spread of covid-19.

Harikar NGO in partnership with UNICEF is implementing this project in cooperation with DMCR, DCVAW, local hospitals, health centers and other concerned local authorities. The project concentrates on the sector of GBV and strives to prevent gender-based violence and provide response and prevention services for children and community members.


The project provided safe space and access for women and girls to the GBV services, And could reach women and girls through a set of different activities such as; awareness sessions, PSS, vocational training, and capacity-building training. However, the most preferred activities were the AGT activities, which had a positive impact on adolescent girls. Many mothers/caregivers suggested providing similar activities for adolescent boys.


